feat: add docs for react searchbox (#158)
appbaseio/Docs: content/docs/reactivesearch/react-searchbox/searchcomponent.md

---
title: 'SearchComponent API Reference'
meta_title: 'Documentation for SearchComponent'

> meta_description: '`SearchComponent` component represents a search component that can be used to build different kinds of search components.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
meta_description: '`SearchComponent` component represents a search component that can be used to bind a UI component with different kinds of search queries (term, range, geo, search).'
```

  
## How does it work?

> `SearchComponent` component represents a search component that can be used to build different kinds of search components. It uses the [SearchComponent](docs/reactivesearch/searchbase/overview/searchcomponent/) class from [SearchBase](docs/reactivesearch/searchbase/overview/QuickStart/) to integrate the UI components with Elasticsearch. Some of the use-cases are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SearchComponent` component represents a search component that can be used to bind a UI component with different kinds of search queries (term, range, geo, search).' It uses the [SearchComponent](docs/reactivesearch/searchbase/overview/searchcomponent/) class from [SearchBase](docs/reactivesearch/searchbase/overview/QuickStart/) to integrate the UI components with Elasticsearch. Some of the use-cases are:
```

-   a category filter component,
-   a search bar component,
-   a price range component,
-   a location filter component,
-   a component to render the search results etc.

## Props

### Configure appbase.io environment

The below props are only needed if you're not using the `SearchComponent` component under [SearchBase](docs/reactivesearch/searchbase/overview/searchbase/) provider. These props can also be used to override the global environment defined in the [SearchBase](docs/reactivesearch/searchbase/overview/searchbase/) component.

> -   **index** `string` [Required]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **index** `string` [required]
```

    -   **enableQueryRules** `boolean` If `false`, then appbase.io will not apply the query rules on the search requests. Defaults to `true`.
    -   **userId** `string` It allows you to define the user id to be used to record the appbase.io analytics. Defaults to the client's IP address.
    -   **customEvents** `Object` It allows you to set the custom events which can be used to build your own analytics on top of appbase.io analytics. Further, these events can be used to filter the analytics stats from the appbase.io dashboard.
 
### To configure the ReactiveSearch API

The following properties can be used to configure the appbase.io [ReactiveSearch API](/docs/search/reactivesearch-api/):

> -   **id** `string` [Required]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **id** `string` [required]
```
